# uspto_analysis
Kaggle competition for the United States Patent and Trademark Office

https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/us-patent-phrase-to-phrase-matching/overview

The goal of this project is to assess the semantic similarity between patents based on phrases extracted from two patents. Determining the semantic similarity between phrases is critically important during the patent search and examination process to determine if an invention has been described before. For example, if one invention claims "television set" and a prior publication describes "TV set", a model would ideally recognize these are the same and assist a patent attorney or examiner in retrieving relevant documents. This extends beyond paraphrase identification; if one invention claims a "strong material" and another uses "steel", that may also be a match. What counts as a "strong material" varies per domain (it may be steel in one domain and ripstop fabric in another, but you wouldn't want your parachute made of steel). We have included the Cooperative Patent Classification as the technical domain context as an additional feature to help you disambiguate these situations.
In this dataset, you are presented pairs of phrases (an anchor and a target phrase) and asked to rate how similar they are on a scale from 0 (not at all similar) to 1 (identical in meaning). This challenge differs from a standard semantic similarity task in that similarity has been scored here within a patent's context, specifically its CPC classification (version 2021.05), which indicates the subject to which the patent relates. For example, while the phrases "bird" and "Cape Cod" may have low semantic similarity in normal language, the likeness of their meaning is much closer if considered in the context of "house".
